Tutorial to run rippled in reporting mode (#1288)
XRPLF/xrpl-dev-portal: content/tutorials/manage-the-rippled-server/installation/build-run-rippled-in-reporting-mode.md

---
html: build-run-rippled-in-reporting-mode.html
parent: install-rippled.html
blurb: Build and run a special operating mode of rippled that handles remote procedure calls (RPC) for validated data.
labels:
  - Core Server
  - Blockchain
top_nav_grouping: Popular Pages
---
# Build and Run `rippled` in Reporting Mode

[Reporting mode](rippled-server-modes.html) is a mode of the XRP Ledger core server specialized for serving [HTTP and WebSocket APIs](rippled-api.html).

In reporting mode, the server does not connect to the peer-to-peer network. Instead, it uses gRPC to get validated data from one or more trusted servers that are connected to the P2P network. 

> It can then efficiently handle RPCs, reducing the load on `rippled` servers running in P2P mode.

Reviewer: We don't usually use the term "RPCs" in official documentation, and the spell checker is flagging it as an unrecognized word. Instead, I suggest:

```suggestion
It can then efficiently handle API calls, reducing the load on `rippled` servers running in P2P mode.
```

{{ include_svg("img/reporting-mode-basic-architecture.svg", "Figure 1: Working of `rippled` in reporting mode") }}

The reporting mode of `rippled` uses two datastores:

> * The primary persistent datastore for `rippled` that includes transaction metadata, account states, and ledger headers. You can use NuDB or Cassandra as the primary persistent datastore.

Reviewer: 1. Since this is the first time we're introducing Cassandra, and it's something they'll need to install, link to the official website so people know what you mean (and don't get it confused for something else with the same name). [NuDB's official site](https://dbdb.io/db/nudb) is not that useful, and it's not important to install, so I suggest adding a parenthetical just so people know it's included.
2. Here seems like a good place to clarify one of the major reasons you'd use one over the other: because with Cassandra you can share data. (With NuDB, the data has to be stored uniquely per server.)

```suggestion
* The primary persistent datastore for `rippled` that includes transaction metadata, account states, and ledger headers. You can use NuDB (included with the source) or [Cassandra](https://cassandra.apache.org/) as the primary persistent datastore. If you use Cassandra, multiple reporting mode servers can share access to data in a single Cassandra instance or cluster.
```

> * PostgreSQL database to hold relational data, which is used mainly by [tx method][] and [account_tx method][]. 

Reviewer: Since this is the first mention, link the [official PostgreSQL website](https://www.postgresql.org/) for the same reason as with Cassandra.

Multiple reporting mode servers can share access to the same network accessible databases (PostgreSQL and Cassandra); at any given time, only one reporting mode server writes to the databases, while all the others read from the databases. 

## How to Run Reporting Mode

### Prerequisites

1. Ensure that your system meets the [system requirements](system-requirements.html).

    **Note:** If you choose to use Cassandra as the database, the disk requirements for `rippled` will be lower as the data will not be stored on your local disk.  

2. In order to run reporting mode, you also need to run one or more `rippled` servers in [P2P mode](install-rippled.html). Ensure that you have at least one `rippled` server running in P2P mode. 

3. Install and configure the datastores required to run `rippled` in reporting mode. 

    1. Install PostgreSQL.

    2. Install and configure the database to be used as the primary persistent datastore. You can choose to use Cassandra or NuDB.

    3. On macOS, you need to manually install the Cassandra cpp driver. On all other platforms, the Cassandra driver is built as part of the `rippled` build. 
        

>         brew install cassandra-cpp-driver

Reviewer: This needs another 4 spaces of indentation to become a code block. Right now it's treated as a continuation paragraph.

```suggestion
            brew install cassandra-cpp-driver
```

#### Install PostgreSQL
    
**Install PostgreSQL on Linux**

1. Download and [install PostgreSQL on Linux](https://www.postgresqltutorial.com/install-postgresql-linux/).
        

> 2. Connect to the PostgreSQL Database Server using psql, and create a user `newuser` and a database `reporting`.

Reviewer: Put `psql` in code font here—because it is a command, and also so the spell checker doesn't flag it as a typo.

```suggestion
2. Connect to the PostgreSQL Database Server using `psql`, and create a user `newuser` and a database `reporting`.
```

        psql postgres
	        CREATE ROLE newuser WITH LOGIN PASSWORD ‘password’;
            ALTER ROLE newuser CREATEDB;
        \q
        psql postgres -U newuser
        postgres=# create database reporting;

**Install PostgreSQL on Windows**

1. Download and [install PostgreSQL on Windows](https://www.postgresqltutorial.com/install-postgresql/).
        

> 2. Launch the psql program and connect to the PostgreSQL Database Server, and create a user `newuser` and a database `reporting`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Launch the `psql` program and connect to the PostgreSQL Database Server, and create a user `newuser` and a database `reporting`. 
```

        psql postgres
	        CREATE ROLE newuser WITH LOGIN PASSWORD ‘password’;
            ALTER ROLE newuser CREATEDB;
        \q
        psql postgres -U newuser
        postgres=# create database reporting;

**Install PostgreSQL on macOS**

> 1. Download and install Postgres on macOS.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Download and install PostgreSQL on macOS.  
```

        brew install postgres
        brew services start postgres

> 2. Connect to the PostgreSQL Database Server using psql and create a user `newuser` and a database `reporting`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Connect to the PostgreSQL Database Server using `psql` and create a user `newuser` and a database `reporting`.
```

        psql postgres
	        CREATE ROLE newuser WITH LOGIN PASSWORD ‘password’;
            ALTER ROLE newuser CREATEDB;
        \q
        psql postgres -U newuser
        postgres=# create database reporting;

#### Install and Configure the Primary Persistent Datastore 

**Cassandra** 

> Install Cassandra and then create a keyspace for `rippled`, with replication. 

Reviewer: Add this so the spelling checker ignores "keyspace" here:

```suggestion
Install Cassandra and then create a keyspace for `rippled`, with replication. <!-- SPELLING_IGNORE: keyspace -->
```

2. Create a configuration file to run `rippled` in reporting mode. 

    Make a copy of the example config file, `rippled.cfg`, and save it as `reporting-mode.cfg` in a location that enables you to run `rippled` as a non-root user. For example:
    
        cd /etc/opt/ripple/

        mkdir -p $HOME/.config/ripple

        cp cfg/rippled-example.cfg $HOME/.config/ripple/rippled-reporting-mode.cfg

3. Edit rippled-reporting-mode.cfg to set necessary file paths. The user you plan to run `rippled` as must have write permissions to all of the paths you specify here.

    1. Set the `[node_db]` path to the location where you want to store the ledger database.

    2. Set the `[database_path]` to the location where you want to store other database data. (This includes an SQLite database with configuration data, and is typically one level above the `[node_db]` path field.)
        
    3. Set the `[debug_logfile]` to a path where `rippled` can write logging information.

    Note that these are the only configurations required for `rippled` to start up successfully. All other configurations are optional and can be tweaked after you have a working server.

> 4. Edit the `rippled-reporting-mode.cfg` file to enable Reporting Mode: 

Reviewer: We should make sure that the case of "reporting mode" is treated consistently. I think it's not a proper noun so we should put it in lower case (except as appropriate for headings, starts of sentences, etc.).

```suggestion
4. Edit the `rippled-reporting-mode.cfg` file to enable reporting mode: 
```

		}
	]
}

2021-Dec-09 21:31:53.291502 UTC ReportingETL:NFO Starting reporting etl
2021-Dec-09 21:31:53.291605 UTC Application:NFO Application starting. Version is 1.8.1+DEBUG
2021-Dec-09 21:31:53.291747 UTC LoadManager:DBG Starting
2021-Dec-09 21:31:53.291846 UTC gRPC Server:NFO Starting gRPC server at 0.0.0.0:60051
2021-Dec-09 21:31:53.293246 UTC LedgerCleaner:DBG Started
2021-Dec-09 21:31:53.295543 UTC ReportingETL::ETLSource:DBG handleMessage : Received a message on ledger  subscription stream. Message : {
   "result" : {},
   "status" : "success",
   "type" : "response"
}
 - { validated_ledger :  , ip : 127.0.0.1 , web socket port : 6006, grpc port : 50051 }
2021-Dec-09 21:31:53.368075 UTC ReportingETL:NFO monitor : Database is empty. Will download a ledger from the network.
2021-Dec-09 21:31:53.368183 UTC ReportingETL:NFO monitor : Waiting for next ledger to be validated by network...
```

## Frequently Asked Questions

> **Do I need to run more than one instance of `rippled` in order to use Reporting mode?**

Reviewer: - You can almost always write "to" instead of "in order to".
- Caps consistency.

```suggestion
**Do I need to run more than one instance of `rippled` to use reporting mode?**
```

> Yes. A `rippled` server running in reporting mode does not connect to the P2P network, but instead extracts validated data from one or more `rippled` servers that are connected to the P2P network. In addition to the `rippled` server running in reporting mode, you need to run at least one other `rippled` server that is connected to the P2P network. 

Reviewer: Just a suggestion. I think this is much shorter but just as clear:

```suggestion
Yes. A `rippled` server running in reporting mode does not connect to the peer-to-peer network, but instead extracts validated data from one or more `rippled` servers that are connected to the network, so you need to run at least one P2P mode server. 
```

**I’ve already installed `rippled`. Can I update the configuration file to enable reporting mode and restart `rippled`?** 

> No. Currently, you need to download the source and build rippled for reporting mode. 
> There are initiatives in progress to provide packages for reporting mode.

Reviewer: - Don't hard-wrap lines.
- Put `rippled` in code font.

```suggestion
No. Currently, you need to download the source and build `rippled` for reporting mode. There are initiatives in progress to provide packages for reporting mode.
```

> **To run `rippled` in Reporting mode, I need at least one `rippled` server running in P2P mode in addition to `rippled` in Reporting mode. Does this mean I need double the disk space?** 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**To run `rippled` in reporting mode, I need at least one `rippled` server running in P2P mode too. Does this mean I need double the disk space?** 
```

- Edited for brevity.
- Lower case "reporting mode" for consistency.

> The answer depends on the location of your primary datastore. If you use Cassandra as the primary datastore, the disk space requirement to run `rippled` in reporting mode will be lower as the data is not stored on your local disk. The PostgreSQL server can be remote as well.

Reviewer: - Avoid future tense ("will be lower")
- "Data store" should be two words (I'm willing to be persuaded the other way on this, but if so, we need to add "datastore" and "datastores" to our spell checker.)

```suggestion
The answer depends on the location of your primary data store. If you use Cassandra as the primary data store, the reporting mode server stores much less data on its local disk. The PostgreSQL server can be remote as well. You can have multiple reporting mode servers share the same data this way.
```

Lastly, the P2P mode server only needs to keep very recent history, while the reporting mode server keeps long term history.

> For more information on system requirements to run `rippled`, see https://xrpl.org/system-requirements.html. 

Reviewer: Make this a local, not absolute, link so it doesn't get treated as "external", and make it a text link rather than a URL.

```suggestion
For more information, see the [`rippled` system requirements](system-requirements.html). 
```

> **How can I confirm the validity of the data that comes from the Postgres or Cassandra database?**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**How can I confirm the validity of the data that comes from the PostgreSQL or Cassandra database?**
```

> `Rippled` running in Reporting mode only serves validated data from the ETL source specified in the config file. If you are accessing someone else's `rippled` server in P2P mode as the ETL source, you are implicitly trusting that server. If not, you need to run your own `rippled` node in P2P mode.

Reviewer: The server name `rippled` is case-sensitive (all-lower case). To make this less confusing, try not to start sentences with `rippled`. Also, changing "reporting mode" to lower case for consistency.

```suggestion
When `rippled` runs in reporting mode, it only serves validated data from the ETL source specified in the config file. If you are using someone else's `rippled` server in P2P mode as the ETL source, you are implicitly trusting that server. If not, you need to run your own `rippled` node in P2P mode.
```

**Is it possible to make traditional SQL queries to the relational database rather than using the API?**

> Technically, you *can* directly access the database if you want. However, the data is hashed as blobs and you have to decode the blobs in order to access using traditional SQL queries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Technically, you *can* directly access the database if you want. However, the data is stored as binary blobs and you have to decode the blobs to access the component fields. This makes traditional SQL queries much less useful since they cannot find and filter the individual fields of the data.
```
